In the program we have studied the
differences and the advantages
and disadvantages of organic
and inorganic growth.
What do you look at who they are
and if you can tell us any anecdote
of some problem you have
found in some organ growth
operation?
First of all, I’ll give you an
example because I think it can
serve everyone of how you can grow,
especially in anorganic
way, which is not the usual.
It is common to grow organically
and during your life to have
sporadic inorganic growths.
That is the nature of most
companies.
Companies grow organically and
occasionally make acquisitions
or mergers that allow them
to either win a market booth,
or diversify, or have things
that they can’t organically
do.
In the case, but look at that also
gives the chance that was in the case
of our company, from SP, but then
especially in the case of Saje,
which is what Saje does in
the world.
The vision that Saje had in the
world, which we also shared
without having met, imagine,
is that we don’t have time to
grow organically, there’s
no time.
Time to market is brutal.
Of course, if we compare it with what
I see now, it is no longer brutal,
but at that time compared to what
had happened before it was brutal.
In a year a market had matured,
then it didn’t give you time
to grow organically.
So what are we deciding?
We decided to buy the number one,
number two or number three of that is
very complicated, it’s very easy
to say here, but the first thing you
have to want the number one or
number two or number three to
sell, you have to be able to somehow
acquire it, in agreement, and
on the other hand you have to
have a price that allows you to acquire it.
All these things together at the same
time are very complicated.
But well, like everything in life,
there is that both our, in my life
as an entrepreneur, as that that
had Saje, a company listed on the
FTSE 100, with a treasury, brutal
cash flow, we made the purchases
directly without leveraging
us zero.
So all this has allowed the
growth strategy to be very
fast and the advantage is huge.
What are the huge disadvantages
that this has?
First, there is no culture
in the company.
These people have no culture.
Why is?
Because you’re buying different,
mature cultures in different countries.
When the time comes to switch to centralized
processes, when the time comes
to share things, that is
very difficult, very difficult.
In fact, we have suffered
it later and there has been
a huge restructuring that
has hurt a lot.
Why is?
Because that growth has made the
members of that company have a quasi-
sympathic half-synchrony
that didn’t allow them
all that.
On the contrary, when you have companies
whose main growth is organic,
they align culturally and allow cultural
movements like those we see in
other types of companies that suddenly
decide to align from one
business model to another and
with a message or bulletins
of nothing.
That is, South Africans
compared to Brazilians, compared
to Europeans, were companies with
different values, who shared
a logo, a brand, of course no
products, because each had
their own products, and they
listed on the stock market
all together.
Then, you’ve seen that there have
been many advantages that
have allowed us to make a time to
market and be world leaders that
we’t have been, but there
have been many problems that
are not leaving us, that
are not leaving us, to make
the transformation that the
big company needs.
What is better than worse?
There is no real answer, that
is, depending on the moment the company
has, the moment the market needs,
what needs the market has and
what you are able to, you have
to choose this world, and it
is that there is no real
solution.
There is a real solution in every
moment, in every situation.
That is, I company, it goes very
well to me, now I have to grow
organically, but this does not mean
that within three years my inorganic
growth axis will not
be more important.
And it can be an inorganic
growth moment, because the value
of the companies, the market environment,
allow me to do things I could
not do at another time, then these
companies that say no, no, I just
go to do this, I don’t want to
do anything else, they’re wrong,
they’re wrong, you have to be
flexible, you have to be willing
to change your strategy according
to the needs you have.
And I think that’s what happened.
We have been at a time when
we were making big purchases
and then paralyzed that and
focused on the axes of
organic growth.
And then we realized that this cultural
change was very complicated.